ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

Hey there and thank you for using React Native!

React Native, as you've probably heard, is getting really popular and truth is we're getting a bit overwhelmed by the activity surrounding it. There are just too many issues for us to manage properly.

Please read the following tips before filing an issue:

Is this something you can debug and fix?
-------------------------------------------------------

Can you see anything in the logs? Can you debug why this happens? **Send a pull request**! Bug fixes and documentation fixes are very welcome.

Have a question or not sure you've found a bug?
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Please ask your question on [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/react-native) with the tag `react-native`. StackOverflow is amazing for Q&A. Because of the reputation system it is likely the community will see and answer your question there.

Make sure you **include a short code snippet to demonstrate the problem**.

Have an idea for a feature?
------------------------------------
Post the feature request on [Product Pains](https://productpains.com/product/react-native/). It has a voting system that lets us focus on the most important issues the community is experiencing. The higher number of votes the more likely it is a feature will get implemented. You could always implement it yourself, too.

None of the above, want to create a GitHub issue
------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure to add **all the information needed to understand the issue** so that someone can help. If the info is missing we'll add the 'Needs more information' label and close the issue until there is enough information.

- If this is a bug, provide a **minimal code snippet** that reproduces it
- Provide **screenshots** where appropriate
- What's the **version** of React Native you're using?
- Does this occur on iOS, Android or both?
- Are you using Mac, Linux or Windows?

Commit message:

Update PR and issue templates and guidelines
Summary:- Simplified the PR and Issue template to make them easier to read.
- Add a very simple guide for reviewing PRs (cc bestander, feel free to add to this)
Closes https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/6295

Differential Revision: D3011905

fb-gh-sync-id: 4929921690a6996e574e6b152a9dd41087cfffdc
shipit-source-id: 4929921690a6996e574e6b152a9dd41087cfffdc

ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

Hey there and thank you for using React Native!

React Native, as you've probably heard, is getting really popular and truth is we're getting a bit overwhelmed by the activity surrounding it. There are just too many issues for us to manage properly.

Do the checklist before filing an issue:

- [ ] Is this something you can **debug and fix**? Send a pull request! Bug fixes and documentation fixes are welcome.
- [ ] Have a usage question? Ask your question on [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/react-native). We use StackOverflow for usage question and GitHub for bugs.
- [ ] Have an idea for a feature? Post the feature request on [Product Pains](https://productpains.com/product/react-native/). It has a voting system to surface the important issues. GitHub issues should only be used for bugs.


None of the above, create a bug report
------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure to add **all the information needed to understand the bug** so that someone can help. If the info is missing we'll add the 'Needs more information' label and close the issue until there is enough information.

- [ ] Provide a **minimal code snippet** / [rnplay](https://rnplay.org/) example that reproduces the bug.
- [ ] Provide **screenshots** where appropriate
- [ ] What's the **version** of React Native you're using?
- [ ] Does this occur on iOS, Android or both?
- [ ] Are you using Mac, Linux or Windows?
