Examples/Movies/README.md, before:

# Movies app

The Movies app is a demonstration of basic concepts, such as fetching data, rendering a list of data including images, and navigating between different screens.

## Running this app

Before running the app, make sure you ran:

    git clone https://github.com/facebook/react-native.git
    cd react-native
    npm install

### Running on iOS

Mac OS and Xcode are required.

- Open `Examples/Movies/Movies.xcodeproj` in Xcode
- Hit the Run button

See [Running on device](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/running-on-device-ios.html) if you want to use a physical device.

### Running on Android

You'll need to have all the [prerequisites](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/tree/master/ReactAndroid#prerequisites) (SDK, NDK) for Building React Native installed.

Start an Android emulator ([Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com) is recommended).

    cd react-native
    ./gradlew :Examples:Movies:android:app:installDebug
    ./packager/packager.sh

_Note: Building for the first time can take a while._

Open the Movies app in your emulator.

See [Running on Device](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/running-on-device-android.html) in case you want to use a physical device.

## Built from source

Building the app on both iOS and Android means building the React Native framework from source. This way you're running the latest native and JS code the way you see it in your clone of the github repo.

This is different from apps created using `react-native init` which have a dependency on a specific version of React Native JS and native code, declared in a `package.json` file (and `build.gradle` for Android apps).

Commit message:

Allow building UIExplorer with Buck
Summary:This adds a BUCK file to UIExplorer to allow building it with buck. It is based on the one in the movies app but I removed the extra deps that were not needed in both files.

Also add build version number and target sdk version in the Android manifest so Buck can use it since it was only specified in the gradle build and caused the app to run on a super old target sdk.

bestander mkonicek Would it be simple to also build the ndk part with Buck? Right now it is built with gradle and packaged after. I suppose it is already being done internally at facebook. The BUCK files for building the cpp code are already there but I couldn't figure out what was missing to make it work :(

That is pretty much the only missing part to have first class support for building RN apps with Buck in OSS. We could eventually include BUCK files with the generated project.

**Test plan (required)**
Build and run UIExplorer and Movies examples using Buck.

Edited:
```
./gradlew ReactAndroid:packageReactNdkLibsForBuck
Closes https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/6399

Reviewed By: mkonicek

Differential Revision: D3042355

Pulled By: bestander

fb-gh-sync-id: 74760c7ba12d35b1853d2e3706c2ba130f9eef1c
fbshipit-source-id: 74760c7ba12d35b1853d2e3706c2ba130f9eef1c

Examples/Movies/README.md, after:

# Movies app

The Movies app is a demonstration of basic concepts, such as fetching data, rendering a list of data including images, and navigating between different screens.

## Running this app

Before running the app, make sure you ran:

    git clone https://github.com/facebook/react-native.git
    cd react-native
    npm install

### Running on iOS

Mac OS and Xcode are required.

- Open `Examples/Movies/Movies.xcodeproj` in Xcode
- Hit the Run button

See [Running on device](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/running-on-device-ios.html) if you want to use a physical device.

### Running on Android

You'll need to have all the [prerequisites](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/tree/master/ReactAndroid#prerequisites) (SDK, NDK) for Building React Native installed.

Start an Android emulator ([Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com) is recommended).

    cd react-native
    ./gradlew :Examples:Movies:android:app:installDebug
    ./packager/packager.sh

_Note: Building for the first time can take a while._

Open the Movies app in your emulator.

See [Running on Device](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/running-on-device-android.html) in case you want to use a physical device.

### Running with Buck

Follow the same setup as running with gradle.

Install Buck from [here](https://buckbuild.com/setup/install.html).

Run the following commands from the react-native folder:

    ./gradlew :ReactAndroid:packageReactNdkLibsForBuck
    buck fetch movies
    buck install -r movies
    ./packager/packager.sh

_Note: The native libs are still built using gradle. Full build with buck is coming soon(tm)._

## Built from source

Building the app on both iOS and Android means building the React Native framework from source. This way you're running the latest native and JS code the way you see it in your clone of the github repo.

This is different from apps created using `react-native init` which have a dependency on a specific version of React Native JS and native code, declared in a `package.json` file (and `build.gradle` for Android apps).
