docs/RunningOnDeviceIOS.md, before:

---
id: running-on-device-ios
title: Running On Device
layout: docs
category: Guides (iOS)
permalink: docs/running-on-device-ios.html
next: running-on-simulator-ios
---

Note that running on device requires [Apple Developer account](https://developer.apple.com/register) and provisioning your iPhone. This guide covers only React Native specific topic.

## Accessing development server from device

You can iterate quickly on device using development server. Ensure that you are on the same WiFi network as your computer.

1. Open `AwesomeApp/ios/AwesomeApp/AppDelegate.m`
2. Change the IP in the URL from `localhost` to your laptop's IP. On Mac, you can find the IP address in System Preferences / Network.
3. Temporarily disable App Transport Security (ATS) by [adding the `NSAllowsArbitraryLoads` entry to your `Info.plist` file][gpl]. Since ATS does not allow insecure HTTP requests to IP addresses, you must completely disable it to run on a device. This is only a requirement for development on a device, and unless you can't workaround an issue you should leave ATS enabled for production builds. For more information, see [this post on configuring ATS][bats].
4. In Xcode select your phone as build target and press "Build and run"

[gpl]: https://gist.github.com/andrewsardone/91797ff9923b9ac6ea64
[bats]: http://ste.vn/2015/06/10/configuring-app-transport-security-ios-9-osx-10-11/

> Hint
>
> Shake the device to open development menu (reload, debug, etc.)

## Using offline bundle

When you run your app on device, we pack all the JavaScript code and the images used into the app's resources. This way you can test it without development server running and submit the app to the AppStore.

1. Open `AwesomeApp/ios/AwesomeApp/AppDelegate.m`
2. Uncomment `jsCodeLocation = [[NSBundle mainBundle] ...`
3. The JS bundle will be built for dev or prod depending on your app's scheme (Debug = development build with warnings, Release = minified prod build with perf optimizations). To change the scheme navigate to `Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme...` in xcode and change `Build Configuration` between `Debug` and `Release`.

## Disabling in-app developer menu

When building your app for production, your app's scheme should be set to `Release` as detailed in [the debugging documentation](docs/debugging.html#debugging-react-native-apps) in order to disable the in-app developer menu.

## Troubleshooting

If `curl` command fails make sure the packager is running. Also try adding `--ipv4` flag to the end of it.

Note that since [v0.14](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/releases/tag/0.14.0) JS and images are automatically packaged into the iOS app using `Bundle React Native code and images` Xcode build phase.

Commit message:

Move everything out of Known Issues and into more appropriate locations.
Summary:
Two of the known issues have been moved to the issue tracker:

* #8315
* #8316

Others have been moved into more appropriate locations, such as the `TextInput` issue to the API doc itself, and the React debugging issue to the Debugging doc.

The Android-specific compatibility concerns have been dropped entirely as it does not seem like people would find these in the docs.
Closes https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/8321

Differential Revision: D3477999

Pulled By: JoelMarcey

fbshipit-source-id: dfffc9910ebf5514eb14c6aa8a9a3e70761db874

docs/RunningOnDeviceIOS.md, after:

---
id: running-on-device-ios
title: Running On Device
layout: docs
category: Guides (iOS)
permalink: docs/running-on-device-ios.html
next: running-on-simulator-ios
---

Running an iOS app on a device requires an [Apple Developer account](https://developer.apple.com/) and provisioning your iPhone. This guide covers only React Native specific topics.

## Accessing the development server from device

You can iterate quickly on device using the development server. First, ensure that you are on the same Wi-Fi network as your computer.

1. Open `ios/YourApp/AppDelegate.m`
2. Change the host in the URL from `localhost` to your laptop's IP address. On Mac, you can find the IP address in System Preferences / Network.
3. In Xcode, select your phone as build target and press "Build and run"

> Hint
>
> Shake the device to open the [developer menu](/docs/debugging.html#accessing-the-in-app-developer-menu).

## Building your app for production

You have built a great app using React Native, and you are now itching to release it in the App Store. The process is the same as any other native iOS app, with some additional considerations to take into account.

### Disabling the developer menu

Building an app for distribution in the App Store requires using the `Release` scheme in Xcode. Apps built for `Release` will automatically disable the in-app developer menu. This will prevent your users from inadvertently accessing the menu in production.

### Using the offline bundle

Set up your app to load your JavaScript, images, and other static assets from its resource bundle rather than the development server. This way you can test the app independently of the development server, and will allow you to distribute the app to beta testers and submit the app to the App Store.

1. Open `ios/YourApp/AppDelegate.m`
2. Uncomment the line, `jsCodeLocation = [[NSBundle mainBundle] ...`

### App Transport Security

App Transport Security is a security feature, added in iOS 9, that rejects all HTTP requests that are not sent over HTTPS. This can result in HTTP traffic being blocked, including the developer React Native server.

ATS is disabled by default in projects generated using the React Native CLI in order to make development easier. You should re-enable ATS prior to building your app for production by removing the `NSAllowsArbitraryLoads` entry from your `Info.plist` file in the `ios/` folder.

To learn more about how to configure ATS on your own Xcode projects, see [this post on ATS][cats].

[cats]: http://ste.vn/2015/06/10/configuring-app-transport-security-ios-9-osx-10-11/
