docs/SignedAPKAndroid.md, before:

---
id: signed-apk-android
title: Generating Signed APK
layout: docs
category: Guides (Android)
permalink: docs/signed-apk-android.html
next: android-ui-performance
---

Android requires that all apps be digitally signed with a certificate before they can be installed, so to distribute your Android application via [Google Play store](https://play.google.com/store), you'll need to generate a signed release APK. The [Signing Your Applications](https://developer.android.com/tools/publishing/app-signing.html) page on Android Developers documentation describes the topic in detail. This guide covers the process in brief, as well as lists the steps required to packaging the JavaScript bundle.

### Generating a signing key

You can generate a private signing key using `keytool`.

    $ keytool -genkey -v -keystore my-release-key.keystore -alias my-key-alias -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000

This command prompts you for passwords for the keystore and key, and to provide the Distinguished Name fields for your key. It then generates the keystore as a file called `my-release-key.keystore`.

The keystore contains a single key, valid for 10000 days. The alias is a name that you will use later when signing your app, so remember to take note of the alias.

_Note: Remember to keep your keystore file private and never commit it to version control._

### Setting up gradle variables

1. Place the `my-release-key.keystore` file under the `android/app` directory in your project folder.
2. Edit the file `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` and add the following (replace `*****` with the correct keystore password, alias and key password),

```
MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_FILE=my-release-key.keystore
MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS=my-key-alias
MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD=*****
MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD=*****
```

These are going to be global gradle variables, which we can later use in our gradle config to sign our app.

_Note: Once you publish the app on the Play Store, you will need to republish your app under a different package name (losing all downloads and ratings) if you want to change the signing key at any point. So backup your keystore and don't forget the passwords._

### Adding signing config to your app's gradle config

Edit the file `android/app/build.gradle` in your project folder and add the signing config,

```gradle
...
android {
    ...
    defaultConfig { ... }
    signingConfigs {
        release {
            storeFile file(MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_FILE)
            storePassword MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD
            keyAlias MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS
            keyPassword MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD
        }
    }
    buildTypes {
        release {
            ...
            signingConfig signingConfigs.release
        }
    }
}
...
```

### Generating the release APK

Simply run the following in a terminal:

```sh
$ cd android && ./gradlew assembleRelease
```

Gradle's `assembleRelease` will bundle all the JavaScript needed to run your app into the APK. If you need to change the way the JavaScript bundle and/or drawable resources are bundled (e.g. if you changed the default file/folder names or the general structure of the project), have a look at `android/app/build.gradle` to see how you can update it to reflect these changes.

The generated APK can be found under `android/app/build/outputs/apk/app-release.apk`, and is ready to be distributed.

### Testing the release build of your app

Before uploading the release build to the Play Store, make sure you test it thoroughly. Install it on the device using:

```sh
$ cd android && ./gradlew installRelease
```

Note that `installRelease` is only available if you've set up signing as described above.

You can kill any running packager instances, all your and framework JavaScript code is bundled in the APK's assets.

### Enabling Proguard to reduce the size of the APK (optional)

Proguard is a tool that can slightly reduce the size of the APK. It does this by stripping parts of the React Native Java bytecode (and its dependencies) that your app is not using.

_**IMPORTANT**: Make sure to thoroughly test your app if you've enabled Proguard. Proguard often requires configuration specific to each native library you're using. See `app/proguard-rules.pro`._

To enable Proguard, edit `android/app/build.gradle`:

```gradle
/**
 * Run Proguard to shrink the Java bytecode in release builds.
 */
def enableProguardInReleaseBuilds = true
```

Commit message:

Option to not store credentials in file
Summary:**Motivation:** I don't like storing credentials in config files and a safer solution is to store them in the Keychain Access app.

Therefore I added a link that describes how one may go about to store the passwords in the Keychain Access app in OSX instead.

Found a [stackoverflow post](http://stackoverflow.com/a/24480579/1836121) but it wasn't very detailed so I decided to write it up myself. I understand if you have some policy against external links to blogs and I guess we could link to the stackoverflow explanation then instead.
Closes https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pull/7089

Differential Revision: D3207215

fb-gh-sync-id: 8011b55efe41ec6d54ad665e0e6a79cb9d806779
fbshipit-source-id: 8011b55efe41ec6d54ad665e0e6a79cb9d806779

docs/SignedAPKAndroid.md, after:

---
id: signed-apk-android
title: Generating Signed APK
layout: docs
category: Guides (Android)
permalink: docs/signed-apk-android.html
next: android-ui-performance
---

Android requires that all apps be digitally signed with a certificate before they can be installed, so to distribute your Android application via [Google Play store](https://play.google.com/store), you'll need to generate a signed release APK. The [Signing Your Applications](https://developer.android.com/tools/publishing/app-signing.html) page on Android Developers documentation describes the topic in detail. This guide covers the process in brief, as well as lists the steps required to packaging the JavaScript bundle.

### Generating a signing key

You can generate a private signing key using `keytool`.

    $ keytool -genkey -v -keystore my-release-key.keystore -alias my-key-alias -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000

This command prompts you for passwords for the keystore and key, and to provide the Distinguished Name fields for your key. It then generates the keystore as a file called `my-release-key.keystore`.

The keystore contains a single key, valid for 10000 days. The alias is a name that you will use later when signing your app, so remember to take note of the alias.

_Note: Remember to keep your keystore file private and never commit it to version control._

### Setting up gradle variables

1. Place the `my-release-key.keystore` file under the `android/app` directory in your project folder.
2. Edit the file `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` and add the following (replace `*****` with the correct keystore password, alias and key password),

```
MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_FILE=my-release-key.keystore
MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS=my-key-alias
MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD=*****
MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD=*****
```

These are going to be global gradle variables, which we can later use in our gradle config to sign our app.

_Note about saving the keystore: Once you publish the app on the Play Store, you will need to republish your app under a different package name (losing all downloads and ratings) if you want to change the signing key at any point. So backup your keystore and don't forget the passwords._

_Note about security: If you are not keen on storing your passwords in plaintext and you are running OSX, you can also [store your credentials in the Keychain Access app](https://pilloxa.gitlab.io/posts/safer-passwords-in-gradle/). Then you can skip the two last rows in `~/.gradle/gradle.properties`._ 


### Adding signing config to your app's gradle config

Edit the file `android/app/build.gradle` in your project folder and add the signing config,

```gradle
...
android {
    ...
    defaultConfig { ... }
    signingConfigs {
        release {
            storeFile file(MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_FILE)
            storePassword MYAPP_RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD
            keyAlias MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS
            keyPassword MYAPP_RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD
        }
    }
    buildTypes {
        release {
            ...
            signingConfig signingConfigs.release
        }
    }
}
...
```

### Generating the release APK

Simply run the following in a terminal:

```sh
$ cd android && ./gradlew assembleRelease
```

Gradle's `assembleRelease` will bundle all the JavaScript needed to run your app into the APK. If you need to change the way the JavaScript bundle and/or drawable resources are bundled (e.g. if you changed the default file/folder names or the general structure of the project), have a look at `android/app/build.gradle` to see how you can update it to reflect these changes.

The generated APK can be found under `android/app/build/outputs/apk/app-release.apk`, and is ready to be distributed.

### Testing the release build of your app

Before uploading the release build to the Play Store, make sure you test it thoroughly. Install it on the device using:

```sh
$ cd android && ./gradlew installRelease
```

Note that `installRelease` is only available if you've set up signing as described above.

You can kill any running packager instances, all your and framework JavaScript code is bundled in the APK's assets.

### Enabling Proguard to reduce the size of the APK (optional)

Proguard is a tool that can slightly reduce the size of the APK. It does this by stripping parts of the React Native Java bytecode (and its dependencies) that your app is not using.

_**IMPORTANT**: Make sure to thoroughly test your app if you've enabled Proguard. Proguard often requires configuration specific to each native library you're using. See `app/proguard-rules.pro`._

To enable Proguard, edit `android/app/build.gradle`:

```gradle
/**
 * Run Proguard to shrink the Java bytecode in release builds.
 */
def enableProguardInReleaseBuilds = true
```
